Document metrics in Tarantool 3.0 (#4348)
tarantool/doc: doc/book/admin/monitoring/grafana_dashboard.rst

.. _monitoring-grafana_dashboard-page:

> ===============================================================================

Reviewer: Better to convert heading markup to the format we use across the docs.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepare a monitoring stack
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since there are Prometheus and InfluxDB data source Grafana dashboards,
you can use one of the following:

- `Telegraf <https://www.influxdata.com/time-series-platform/telegraf/>`_
  as a server agent for collecting metrics, `InfluxDB <https://www.influxdata.com/>`_
  as a time series database for storing metrics, and `Grafana <https://grafana.com/>`_
  as a visualization platform.
- `Prometheus <https://prometheus.io/>`_ as both a server agent for collecting metrics
  and a time series database for storing metrics, and `Grafana <https://grafana.com/>`_
  as a visualization platform.

For issues related to setting up Prometheus, Telegraf, InfluxDB, or Grafana instances, refer to the corresponding project's documentation.

.. _monitoring-grafana_dashboard-collect_metrics:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Collect metrics with server agents
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> To collect metrics for Prometheus, first set up metrics output with ``prometheus`` format.

Reviewer: Seems like third-level headings would be useful here.

Author: Totally agree

You can use the :ref:`roles.metrics-export <monitoring_exposing_metrics>` configuration or set up the :ref:`Prometheus plugin <metrics-prometheus-api_reference>` manually.

> To start collecting metrics, `add a job <https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/getting_started/#configure-prometheus-to-monitor-the-sample-targets>`_

Reviewer: Nit: inline links to external docs can be confusing, I prefer to say explicitly when the link leads to another website. Up to you.

Author: BTW, it would be cool to have internal and external links rendered differently, for example:

<img width="719" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/78b899e1-d481-42c8-83e0-992dd13fb1e5">

to Telegraf configuration including each Tarantool instance metrics URL:

..  code-block:: toml

    [[inputs.http]]
        urls = [
            "http://example_project:8081/metrics/json",
            "http://example_project:8082/metrics/json",
            "http://example_project:8083/metrics/json",
            "http://example_project:8084/metrics/json",
            "http://example_project:8085/metrics/json"
        ]
        timeout = "30s"
        tag_keys = [
            "metric_name",
            "label_pairs_alias",
            "label_pairs_quantile",
            "label_pairs_path",
            "label_pairs_method",
            "label_pairs_status",
            "label_pairs_operation",
            "label_pairs_level",
            "label_pairs_id",
            "label_pairs_engine",
            "label_pairs_name",
            "label_pairs_index_name",
            "label_pairs_delta",
            "label_pairs_stream",
            "label_pairs_thread",
            "label_pairs_kind"
        ]
        insecure_skip_verify = true
        interval = "10s"
        data_format = "json"
        name_prefix = "tarantool_"
        fieldpass = ["value"]

> Be sure to include each label key as ``label_pairs_<key>`` so it will be
> extracted with the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure to include each label key as ``label_pairs_<key>`` to extract it
with the plugin.
```

For example, if you use :code:`{ state = 'ready' }` labels somewhere in metric collectors, add ``label_pairs_state`` tag key.

.. _monitoring-grafana_dashboard-import:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Import the dashboard
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Open Grafana import menu.

..  image:: images/grafana_import.png
    :align: left

To import a specific dashboard, choose one of the following options:

- paste the dashboard id (``21474`` for Prometheus dashboard, ``21484`` for InfluxDB dashboard)
- paste a link to the dashboard (https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/21474 for Prometheus dashboard, https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/21484 for InfluxDB dashboard)
- paste the dashboard JSON file contents
- upload the dashboard JSON file

Set dashboard name, folder and uid (if needed).

..  image:: images/grafana_import_setup.png
    :align: left

> You can choose datasource and datasource variables after import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose the data source and data source variables after import.
```
https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/
